I am not a fan of seeking 100% test
coverage, cuz I think it's dumb.
I think it's dumb, because for the most
part, you don't need 100% test coverage.
There's things that you
just don't need to test.
But if you want to,
I'm gonna show you how to cheat.
There's a thing called snapshot testing,
which in general, I think is a bad idea.
But it's built into Vitest,
it's built into Jest, and it's very easy.
So snapshot testing, it's low effort,
low confidence tests.
So they're very easy to write, but
they inspire very little confidence.
So cheap tests that don't do much.
Now, you have to ask yourself,
is that a good thing for me?
Do I like that?
For me personally, they're too noisy, and
I also don't get very
much value out of them.
But I'm gonna show you how
to write them nonetheless.
So let's do it with Results.jsx.
I want you to create a file here,
Results.test.jsx.
Here, we're going to import expect,
and test from vitest.
And I'm going to import render
from testing-library react
And I'm going to import Results,
From ../Results, okay?
Test renders correctly with no pets,
async function, doesn't have to be async,
but I just make it async anyway.
Then we're gonna grab this
thing out called asFragment,
= render(<Results pets = empty array).
Okay, and then we're gonna say,
expect(asFragment), which is a function.
And you're gonna call this magic
function called toMatchSnapshot.
Okay, what happened here?
It just doesn't have any tests,
which is fine.
So if I save this, It's gonna say,
hey, I wrote a new snapshot for you.
Then you can look in the snapshots
directory up here, and
you can see that it renders
out this document fragment
here of what this looks like
rendered to HTML directly.
And then now, every time that I run this,
it's just going to compare this
to what it was previously, right?
So it's gonna say, okay,
this is what I saw last time,
does this look exactly the same this time?
So to prove my point here,
let's look at Results.
And I'm gonna put No Pets Found
with a bunch of exclamation points,
and I am gonna get a failing test, why?
Because before, it said No Pets Found,
and now it says, No Pets Found!.
Does exactly what it says it is like.
I'm gonna take a frozen
snapshot of this and
then I'm going to compare this in the
future that this is what I expect to see.
Now what I can do here is,
I can go and say, you know what,
this is actually what I expect, right?
I want this to now match that, if I
just hit you now, it's like, all right,
you're the boss.
I'm gonna tell you now that's what
it's gonna look like in the future.
So now if I open this again,
Notice that it says it's okay, close this.
Yeah, don't save, please refresh it.
And now if I say snapshot,
you can see here now it
actually says what I have here.
Do you think that's useful?
Maybe, sometimes.
If you had something that truly you'd
never really expected to change and
for some reason it was changing
underneath you, by all means,
this could be a valid use case for that.
For me this is just testing
that my UI is not changing and
I also expect my UI to change.
I used to write a lot of these so
that I could get 100% test coverage.
I don't think that's useful anymore,
so I don't write very many of these.
The one thing I can show you here,
let's go back,
this is writing to match snapshot.
If I put to match inline snapshot,
now I'm gonna save this,
it'll actually write this directly here
if you don't wanna have a separate file,
that's up to you, some people like that
better, but that's totally up to you.
I wasn't gonna say about that.
Yeah I don't write too
many of these anymore, but
I wanted to show you how to do it in
case you wanted to know how to do it.
Some people find that very useful.
Snapshots is not just for react by
the way, you can do with JSON, for
example, right?
So if I have some JSON API response that
I'm expecting to not change over time,
I can just give it a JSON object
instead of a document fragment, and
that'll work as well.
But as you can see, two lines here
of testing stuff generates a test,
some people are really into that,
I'll leave that to your discretion.
So this is doing with no pets, if you
wanna see what it looks like with pets,
let's just go nab this, I have some sample
data here that you can grab really quick.
So let's go grab the sample data,
I literally just took this
directly from an API response.
There we go, grab an API response.
We'll just say right here,
blah equals blah.
We'll have to import
static router as well.
So import StaticRouter
from react-router-dom/server, okay.
And then down here we'll write another
test that looks relatively similar test
renders correctly with some pets.
And here you can say,
const asFragment = render
StaticRouter Results pets = pets.
And then, expect asFragment
toMatchSnapshot.
There you go.
You'll see that it wrote a snapshot, we
can go back and look at our snapshot file.
And you can see here it's rendering
out that, Luna rendered correctly
with dog Coveny, Seattle,
Washington, so on and so forth.
So that's what that would look like.
Let me tell you my minor
problem with this,
what happens if I change something in pet?
Let's just go do it, just for funsies.
So I change these from m dashes to
normal dashes or something like that,
something really silly or
I'll just put names like this.
All right, so now my tests are gonna fail,
and this is gonna fail because it says,
Jacqueline and Lyda and Si and
all those kinda things.
Which test is failing?
The results test.
Where's there the problem?
The pet's component,
the wrong test is failing, right?
When I have a test fail,
I wanna know exactly what's wrong.
This one gives me some indirection
of what has gone amiss,
I don't like that, I want my test to
be very specific of what I'm testing.
There's something you can do to get
around this called shallow rendering,
which we would have to go grab another
library called react-test-renderer, and
you can do a shallow render.
So instead of actually rendering
everything down to the pet level,
it'll say basically, instead of that,
It'll say that this is trying to render
a pet with all the props, right?
I'm not gonna type out all the props,
but it will actually give you
the name of the react component as
opposed to the actual full HTML.
That's a bit better if you're gonna
be doing lots of snapshot testing,
I would suggest going to do that.
I'll show you how to do that in v7,
if you wanna do that, but
I've decided to de-emphasize
snapshot testing in this course
because I don't think it's a good idea.
I want you to be aware of it,
because you're definitely gonna
come across at a company that does it,
but use at your own peril.
Does that make sense?
Does this make sense?
Okay, two things about snapshot test,
you do check them in to get, some people
are hesitant to do that, most people say,
don't check in machine generated files.
These ones you do check in, right,
because you wanna check them later, right?
So it's important that you
do check these into Git and
never modify them directly, right?
I think that makes sense, these should
only ever be machine generated,
please do not edit them by hand.
>> Craig online just said,
I found that snapshot tests work well for
API integration testing
on a test API endpoint.
>> Yeah, no, I could buy that.
To Craig's point,
I believe that snapshot testing is a much
better use case to making sure
that your JSON response shapes
are not changing between your client and
your server.
It's basically like you're
giving a guarantee from
the back end developer to the front end
developer like a handshake agreement.
This is what this looks like, our tests
are gonna fail if these drift apart.
That is a super valid reason
to use a snapshot test, and
one that I've done before,
so yes, I agree with that.
But this is, It gets you towards
100% test coverage, right?
So we're gonna look at test
coverage here in just a second.
It's going to show results.jsx
as being 100% test covered.
What did we test?
Nothing, right?
That's why I don't like test coverage
is because it doesn't really tell you
anything.
I could cover this entire application
in five minutes with snapshot tests, it
will show with 100% coverage and I would
have 0% confidence in my tests, right?
Your test are only as useful as like how
much effort and thought you put into them.
Okay, that's enough for me on snapshots.